wait a minute
what is your iq do you sometimes wish
you had even a higher iq than the one
you currently possess
let's take things even higher
what do you think it takes to bring up a
child with even a higher iq which is
exceptional and what would you do to
have such a child in your possession
today i will explain a drama comedy
movie called gifted
frank adler chris evans is trying to get
his niece mary mckenna grace to come out
of the
bathroom she is not fond of the outfit
she has to wear for what is to be her
first day of school
frank and mary live in a small home with
their one-eyed cat fred
frank then goes to drop mary off at the
bus stop
after she's gone frank is spotted by his
neighbor roberta octavia spencer
roberta follows frank into his house and
tells him that he needs to do something
for mary or else he will lose her
mary begins her first day of first grade
in math class taught by ms bonnie
stevenson jenny slate
bonnie asks basic math questions but
mary is displeased since she knows more
advanced math than the rest of the class
she solves a multiplication problem on
her own and even states the square root
of the number
principal davis elizabeth marvel enters
the room and mary shouts at her to call
frank and get her out of class
after school frank picks mary up bonnie
runs outside to catch him and discuss
mary's incredible knowledge of math
frank says that mary studied the
trachtenberg method to allow herself to
memorize equations and arithmetic
computations
bonnie later looks up the trachtenberg
method to see what frank was talking
about
she also looks up mary's mother frank's
sister diane who was a brilliant
mathematician until she committed
suicide when mary was only six months
old frank takes mary out for a day at
the beach on a boat while also lecturing
her on why she shouldn't have yelled at
the principal
mary does appear to show remorse
later frank goes to a bar he visits
every every friday night and finds
bonnie coming in to approach him
she confronts frank about what he did
and did not tell her truthfully about
mary
frank explains how diane came to him one
night and he did not realize what she
would do later he found diane on the
bathroom floor and has had mary ever
since
mary is on the school bus and sees her
classmate justin michael kendall kaplan
walking with a zoo diorama that mary
finds better than the one she made
another kid named ricky brody rose trips
justin and causes him to break his
diorama mocking the poor boy in front of
the other kids
mary yells at ricky for what he did and
when he asks what she'll do mary grabs a
textbook from another kid and whacks
ricky in the face breaking his nose
frank is called in after the incident
principal davis considers expelling mary
but then suggests granting her a
scholarship to attend the oaks academy
for gifted education as someone with
mary's intellect would be more suited
for that environment
however frank refuses to allow it
feeling that mary needs a normal
education and childhood
mary later apologizes to her class for
hitting ricky but then takes the
opportunity to mention how great
justin's diorama was leading the class
to applaud the boy
frank and mary receive an unexpected
visit from frank's estranged mother
evelyn lindsey duncan
she gives mary a laptop as a gift
evelyn then takes the time to criticize
frank's living arrangements and mary's
form of education which doesn't surprise
frank
she claims she is looking out for mary's
best interest and asks frank what diane
would think if she saw how mary lives
now
evelyn wants to take mary and put give
her the best education she can get to
put more potential in her future
frank and evelyn then become involved in
a custody battle
evelyn brings her lawyer aubry highsmith
john finn while frank is represented by
greg
cullen glenn plummer
highsmith argues that frank illegally
gained custody of mary while cullen
defends frank's living conditions
it is settled that frank and mary will
be checked on while evelyn will have
some time to herself with mary
frank leaves mary with roberta for the
evening while he goes out for drinks
with bonnie
they eventually hook up although bonnie
is initially hesitant
the two sleep together and mary
unexpectedly goes over to her house the
next morning while bonnie is there
wrapped in a bed sheet
mary catches her and bonnie leaves
extremely embarrassed
frank scolds mary for leaving roberta's
home when she wasn't supposed to so mary
thinks frank can't have a personal life
because of her
evelyn takes mary to boston
she shows mary pictures of diane and
tells her about diane's research into
the